---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: default
---
## Interactive plot of viral transcription and progeny production
This page provides an interactive version of figures 5A and 5B from [*Influenza virus transcription and progeny production are poorly correlated in single cells*](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.08.30.505828v2). Each point on this plot represents a single-influenza infected cell. You can mouse over each point to see information about the outcomes of viral infection in that cell. At the bottom of the plot, there are drop down menus to select cells with specific viral genotypes and missing viral genes.

{% include test.html %}

### Viral transcription and progeny production in cells infected at low MOI
Low MOI placeholder

{% include test2.html %}

### Viral transcription and progeny production in cells infected at high MOI
High MOI placeholder

### Data available in these plots
This plot shows viral transcription on the x-axis and progeny production on the y-axis. Each point represents a single influenza-infected cell. Mousing over a point provides further information:  

`cell_barcode`: Barcode that uniquely identifies each cell  
`frac_viral_UMIs`: Fraction of mRNA in the cell from virus  
`total_UMIs`: Total number of unique mRNA molecules sequenced in the cell  
`missing_viral_genes`: List of viral genes that are *not* expressed in the cell  
`mutated_genes`: List of viral genes that have any mutation  
`freq_supernatant`: Fraction of viral barcodes in supernatant generated by the cell; represents physical progeny virions  
`freq_second_infection`:  Fraction of viral barcodes in cells infected with supernatant generated by the cell; represents infectious progeny virions  
`viral_mutations`: List of mutations identified in the viral genes and classification of the mutation (e.g. synonymous, non-synonymous, non-coding)  
`mutation_support`: Number of UMIs sequenced in the PacBio data supporting a consensus mutation out of all UMIs sequenced in the PacBio data for gene  

### How these plots were created
These plots shows the total viral transcription and progeny produced by single influenza-infected cells. Total viral transcription was calculated as the fraction of mRNA from virus in each cell. Physical progeny production was calculated as the fraction of viral barcodes in the supernatant associated with each cell among barcodes assignable to any infected cell. Infectious progeny production (right, when available) was calculated in the same way, using RNA extracted from cells infected with progeny viral supernatants.

## Source data and code
The input data and code used to generate this plot are in the [final_analysis.py.ipynb](https://github.com/jbloomlab/barcoded_flu_pdmH1N1/blob/main/final_analysis.py.ipynb) notebook.

This webpage was created by David Bacsik and Jesse Bloom. Thanks to Will Hannon for assistance.
